Implement planned topic: 0032-workflow-streams (#220)
temporalio/skill-temporal-developer: references/python/workflow-streams.md

# Workflow Streams (Python)

> [!NOTE]
> This feature is in Public Preview. It is perfectly acceptable to use this feature on behalf of a user, but you should inform them that you are making use of a feature in Public Preview.

## Overview

> `temporalio.contrib.workflow_streams`  is a Public-Preview Python SDK `contrib` library that gives a Workflow a durable, offset-addressed event channel built on Temporal's basic message primitives: Signals, Updates, and Queries.  It batch-publishes events, deduplicates batches for exactly-once delivery to the log, supports topic filtering, and carries state across Continue-As-New.

Reviewer: We already have the public preview info message. No need to mention it anywhere else throughout.

```suggestion
`temporalio.contrib.workflow_streams` is a Python SDK `contrib` library that gives a Workflow a durable, offset-addressed event channel built on Temporal's basic message primitives: Signals, Updates, and Queries.  It batch-publishes events, deduplicates batches for exactly-once delivery to the log, supports topic filtering, and carries state across Continue-As-New.
```

> Use it for modest fan-out progress streaming: AI-agent runs, order pipelines, data jobs.  It targets "tens of publishers and subscribers per Workflow, not thousands"; it is not suited to ultra-low-latency cases like real-time voice.

Reviewer 2: "data jobs" is pretty vague and weird

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use it for modest fan-out progress streaming: AI-agent runs, order pipelines, multi-step workflow status updates, etc.  It targets "tens of publishers and subscribers per Workflow, not thousands"; it is not suited to ultra-low-latency cases like real-time voice.
```

> Only the Python client is available today; cross-language is on the roadmap.  The API may change before general availability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only available in the Python SDK today; cross-language is on the roadmap.
```

> See [Public Preview release stage](/evaluate/development-production-features/release-stages#public-preview) and the [Workflow message-passing reference](/develop/python/workflows/message-passing) for the primitives this builds on.

Reviewer 2: I'm assuming these links are correct, would take a while to verify

Reviewer: No need for them though, delete.

```suggestion
```

There are actually 4 failures / learnings all right here:
1. With regards to features being public preview, you should do no more and no less than directly including the public preview notice that is at the top of this file already. Other than that message, never mention public preview / experimental / etc. throughout.
2. Is it useful for the agent to know about the "Public Preview release stage" and the "Workflow message-passing reference" in the context of using the streaming API? No, it isn't. So these should not be here.
3. Strongly prefer to cite references within the skill itself rather than on the main Temporal docs.
4. If you DO cite from the main temporal docs, the URLs **MUST** be a publicly accessible full `https://` URL. The user does NOT have a local clone of the docs repo on their machine. So `/develop/python/workflows/message-passing` must instead be written as `https://docs.temporal.io/develop/python/workflows/message-passing`

## When to use / not to use

- Use it for: updating a UI as an AI agent works; surfacing status from a payment or order pipeline; reporting intermediate results from a data job.
- Skip it for: ultra-low-latency cases like real-time voice.
- Skip it for: high fan-out — thousands of subscribers per Workflow.

## Where to host the stream

A `WorkflowStream` is hosted inside a Workflow. The Workflow Id is the address subscribers attach to.

- **Same-Workflow hosting (common shape):** the Workflow that does the work also hosts the stream. Its lifecycle aligns with the run. Use this for AI agents and most progress-streaming cases.
- **Dedicated Workflow:** when the stream should outlive any single producer, accept fan-in from multiple unrelated sources, or be subscribable before any work has started. Producers publish from outside. Trade-off: explicit lifecycle management — the dedicated Workflow does not terminate on its own, so wire a signal-driven shutdown or a Continue-As-New strategy.
- Multiple subscribers can attach to the same Workflow Id concurrently (e.g. a UI with multiple browser tabs).

> - Use distinct Workflow Ids for unrelated streams rather than packing them into one Workflow.

Reviewer 2: This is kind of weird advice. You should just stream what your workflow/client needs. If streams are unrelated, that's what topics are for. Creating a whole new workflow sounds like overkill

Reviewer: Does sound kinda weird, but it did just pick it up verbatim from https://docs.temporal.io/develop/python/workflows/workflow-streams

Reviewer: I would just cut it though personally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    @workflow.run
    async def run(self, input: WorkflowInput) -> None:
        while True:
            await do_one_iteration(self)
            if workflow.info().is_continue_as_new_suggested():
                await self.stream.continue_as_new(
                    lambda stream_state: [
                        WorkflowInput(
                            app_state=self.app_state,
                            stream_state=stream_state,
                        )
                    ]
                )
```

**Hard constraint:** the field type must be `WorkflowStreamState | None`, **not** `Any`.  With `Any`, the data converter rebuilds the field as a plain `dict` and `WorkflowStream(prior_state=...)` raises `AttributeError` accessing `.log` / `.base_offset` / `.publishers` on the dict.

To pass other CAN parameters (`task_queue`, `retry_policy`, `run_timeout`), use the explicit recipe:

```python
self.stream.detach_pollers()
await workflow.wait_condition(workflow.all_handlers_finished)
workflow.continue_as_new(
    args=[WorkflowInput(app_state=self.app_state, stream_state=self.stream.get_state())],
    task_queue="other-tq",
)
```

> The carried `WorkflowStreamState` includes the entire in-memory log of the previous run.  Offload large items via [External Storage](/external-storage) so each item is a small reference, and combine with `truncate()` to keep the carried log itself small.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The carried `WorkflowStreamState` includes the entire in-memory log of the previous run.  Offload large items via [External Storage](https://docs.temporal.io/external-storage) so each item is a small reference, and combine with `truncate()` to keep the carried log itself small.
```

## Architecture

**Append-only in-memory log inside the Workflow.** Each entry is `(topic, data)` with a monotonically increasing global offset.  Subscribers maintain their own cursor; each long-poll receives the next range past it.  The log is replay-safe and carried across Continue-As-New via `WorkflowStreamState`.

**Two mechanisms bound log growth, and they do different jobs:**
- `truncate(up_to_offset)` drops entries from the in-memory log (and from the carried CAN payload). It does **not** remove publish Signals already recorded in history.
- **Continue-As-New** starts a fresh history. This is the only way to shrink history; truncate alone cannot.

A subscriber whose offset falls below the new base after `truncate()` is silently advanced; the iterator does not raise, but the subscriber may re-receive items already in the log past the new base.

**Wire-level handler names** (registered when you construct a `WorkflowStream`):
- `__temporal_workflow_stream_publish` — Signal that receives batched publishes.
- `__temporal_workflow_stream_poll` — long-poll Update that subscribers use.
- `__temporal_workflow_stream_offset` — Query that reports the current head offset.

> **Poll responses are capped at roughly 1 MB**, by accumulating items until the next would exceed the budget.  A single item that exceeds 1 MB on its own is admitted unconditionally; offload via [External Storage](/external-storage).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Poll responses are capped at roughly 1 MB**, by accumulating items until the next would exceed the budget.  A single item that exceeds 1 MB on its own is admitted unconditionally; offload via [External Storage](https://docs.temporal.io/external-storage).
```

## Gotchas

- **`WorkflowStreamClient` is asyncio-only.** The client buffer is mutated on the publish path and read from the flusher inside a single event loop. Don't call `publish()` from a worker thread.
- **First-activation handler race.** On the very first activation a publish Signal can be queued before class-level `@workflow.signal` or `@workflow.update` handlers have run.  The fix: make the handler `async def` and `await` once before reading state. Use `asyncio.sleep(0)` — a no-op yield that adds no history events.  **Do not** substitute `workflow.sleep(0)` — it records a timer event.
- **Type bindings are per-instance.** Each `WorkflowStream` and each `WorkflowStreamClient` records topic types only for its own instance. If two publishers bind the same topic name to different types, the mismatch is not caught at publish; the subscriber gets a decode error on events from the mismatched publisher.

## End-to-end: Stream LLM output

The Activity publishes deltas as they arrive; the Workflow kicks off the Activity and waits for a consumer ack; the consumer subscribes, accumulates the deltas, and clears its accumulated state on `RETRY`.

```python
# activity.py

> from openai import AsyncOpenAI

Reviewer 2: I wonder if having this as an example could cause the developer skill to suggest this from-scratch approach instead of the OpenAI plugin. Maybe we can make this example more generic or basic?

Reviewer: Yeah this is a good question. Options:
1. Just cut it. Agent already has sample code elsewhere in this file, might be sufficient. Also it already has a link to https://github.com/temporalio/samples-python/tree/main/workflow_streams at the bottom.
2. Keep it, but put a note saying that this is just a worked example, if you are actually using OpenAI, then just use the integration library instead since it does it for you.
3. Change to a simpler example.

I'd lean towards 1, this file is already really long.

            )
            break

    return "".join(output)
```

Why these choices:

- The Activity is the publisher because it owns the non-deterministic LLM call. The Workflow processes only the Activity's return value, never reading its own stream.
- The Activity publishes a `RETRY` event when `activity.info().attempt > 1`, so retry-aware UIs can clear accumulated deltas before the next attempt's deltas arrive.
- Termination uses an **ack handshake**: the consumer signals the Workflow once it has received the `close` event; the Workflow returns as soon as the subscriber confirms.
- `force_flush=True` is used only on the first delta and on the `RETRY` sentinel, where latency matters. Subsequent deltas batch at the 200 ms `batch_interval`; per-delta `force_flush=True` would generate one Signal per token.

## See also

- [Workflow Streams samples (samples-python)](https://github.com/temporalio/samples-python/tree/main/workflow_streams) — basic publish/subscribe, reconnecting subscribers, external publishers, bounded logs.
- [`temporalio.contrib.workflow_streams` API reference](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.contrib.workflow_streams.html).

> - [Workflow message passing](/develop/python/workflows/message-passing) — Signals, Updates, and Queries that Workflow Streams is built on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
